Certification for Dental Assistants
DANB Certification:
Achieving DANB (Dental Assisting National Board) certifications, such as CDA, COA, and NELDA, enhances
a dental assistant's professional credibility and demonstrates a commitment to high standards in patient
care.
These certifications can lead to increased earning potential and greater career
advancement, as many employers prefer certified candidates for their skills and
knowledge.
Pathways to Certification:
Graduation from Accredited Programs:
Completing a CODA-accredited dental assisting program provides the necessary education and clinical experience.
Work Experience:
Significant hands-on experience in a dental setting can also qualify candidates for certification.
Prior Certifications:
Existing relevant certifications may allow for an expedited certification process.
By pursuing these pathways, dental assistants can enhance their careers in a growing profession.